README.md, before:

# BeagleBone Blue
Howto use [BeagleBone Blue](https://github.com/jadonk/beaglebone-blue) with [ArduPilot](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot)

[![alt text](https://img.youtube.com/vi/v2xWtlyYrtE/0.jpg)](https://youtu.be/v2xWtlyYrtE)

[![alt text](https://img.youtube.com/vi/8bVc9X869pw/0.jpg)](https://youtu.be/8bVc9X869pw)

# Hardware

![alt text](https://github.com/jadonk/beaglebone-blue/blob/master/docs/BeagleBone_Blue_balloons.png "BeagleBone Blue")

## Receiver
The RC receiver signal has to be connected to connector E4 pin 4. This pin is a multi protocol pin (S.BUS, PPM-Sum, Spektrum Satellit DSM), the protocol will be automatically detected. Make sure the signal does not exceed 3.3 volts, otherwise your BeagleBone Blue can be damaged.

## GPS
I recommend to use a u-blox M8N GPS. Connect the GPS to the GPS connector. Make sure the signal does not exceed 3.3 volts, otherwise your BeagleBone Blue can be damaged.

# Software

## Prepare BeagleBone Blue
1. Update software: `sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade -y`
2. Install software: `sudo apt install -y bb-cape-overlays cpufrequtils ardupilot-copter-blue`
3. Set clock to 1GHz: `sudo sed -i 's/GOVERNOR="ondemand"/GOVERNOR="performance"/g' /etc/init.d/cpufrequtils`
4. Update scripts: `cd /opt/scripts && sudo git pull`
5. Install RT Kernel 4.4: `sudo /opt/scripts/tools/update_kernel.sh --ti-rt-channel --lts-4_4`
6. Reboot system: `sudo reboot`

## Prebuild ArduPilot 
1. Download ready compiled ArduPilot file from http://bbbmini.org/download/blue/
2. Copy file via SCP or microSD on your BeagleBone Blue

## Run ArduPilot

ArduCopter:
`sudo /home/debian/arducopter` (plus parameter) 

ArduPlane:
`sudo /home/debian/arduplane` (plus parameter) 

ArduRover:
`sudo /home/debian/ardurover` (plus parameter) 

Parameter mapping:

start parameter | ArduPilot serial port 
------------ | -------------
-A | SERIAL0
-B | SERIAL3
-C | SERIAL1
-D | SERIAL2
-E | SERIAL4
-F | SERIAL5

Check http://ardupilot.org/copter/docs/parameters.html#serial0-baud-serial0-baud-rate to set the right value for `SERIALx_BAUD` and `SERIALx_PROTOCOL`

To connect a MAVLink groundstation with IP 192.168.178.26 add `-C udp:192.168.178.26:14550`

To use MAVLink via radio connected to UART4 add `-C /dev/ttyO4`. 

If there is a GPS connected to UART5 add `-B /dev/ttyO5`. 

Example: MAVLink groundstation with IP 192.168.178.26 on port 14550 and GPS connected to `/dev/ttyO5` UART5.

`sudo /home/debian/arducopter-quad -C udp:192.168.178.26:14550 -B /dev/ttyO5`

Example: MAVLink groundstation via radio connected to UART4 and GPS connected to `/dev/ttyO5` UART5.

`sudo /home/debian/arducopter-quad -B /dev/ttyO5 -C /dev/ttyO4`

### Automatic start ArduCopter after boot

If ArduCopter should start automatically at boot time follow the instructions below:

SYS V init based startup

Edit `/etc/rc.local` with `sudo nano /etc/rc.local`
Modify file to:
```
#!/bin/sh -e
#
# rc.local
#
# This script is executed at the end of each multiuser runlevel.
# Make sure that the script will "exit 0" on success or any other
# value on error.
#
# In order to enable or disable this script just change the execution
# bits.
#
# By default this script does nothing.

/bin/sleep 10
/bin/echo uart > /sys/devices/platform/ocp/ocp\:P9_21_pinmux/state
/bin/echo uart > /sys/devices/platform/ocp/ocp\:P9_22_pinmux/state
/bin/echo pruecapin_pu > /sys/devices/platform/ocp/ocp:P8_15_pinmux/state
/home/debian/arducopter -B /dev/ttyO2 -C /dev/ttyUSB0 > /home/debian/arducopter.log &

exit 0
```

1. Save file: `Strg + o + Enter`
2. Exit nano: `Strg + x`
3. Reboot BegaleBone with `sudo reboot`

Systemd based startup, useful with arducopter packages from debian/rcnee repo.

Edit systemd startup vi with vi command below, or use sudo nano command from above

sudo vi /lib/systemd/system/arducopter.service

Replace contents of service file with below. Use ESC, then :wq to exit.

[Unit]
Description=ArduCopter Service
After=networking.service
Conflicts=arduplane.service ardupilot.service ardurover.service

[Service]
EnvironmentFile=/etc/default/arducopter
ExecStartPre=/bin/bash -c "/bin/echo uart > /sys/devices/platform/ocp/ocp:P9_21_pinmux/state"
ExecStartPre=/bin/bash -c "/bin/echo uart > /sys/devices/platform/ocp/ocp:P9_22_pinmux/state"
ExecStartPre=/bin/bash -c "/bin/echo uart > /sys/devices/platform/ocp/ocp:P9_24_pinmux/state"
ExecStartPre=/bin/bash -c "/bin/echo uart > /sys/devices/platform/ocp/ocp:P9_26_pinmux/state"
ExecStartPre=/bin/bash -c "/bin/echo pruecapin_pu > /sys/devices/platform/ocp/ocp:P8_15_pinmux/state"
ExecStart=/usr/bin/ardupilot/blue-arducopter $TELEM1 $TELEM2 $GPS

Restart=on-failure

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target

# License

<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-sa/4.0/88x31.png" /></a><br /><span xmlns:dct="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" property="dct:title">BeagleBone Blue ArduPilot</span> by <a xmlns:cc="http://creativecommons.org/ns#" href="https://github.com/mirkix" property="cc:attributionName" rel="cc:attributionURL">Mirko Denecke</a> is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License</a>.

UNLESS OTHERWISE MUTUALLY AGREED TO BY THE PARTIES IN WRITING, LICENSOR OFFERS THE WORK AS-IS AND MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND CONCERNING THE WORK, EXPRESS, IMPLIED, STATUTORY OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTIES OF TITLE, MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NONINFRINGEMENT, OR THE ABSENCE OF LATENT OR OTHER DEFECTS, ACCURACY, OR THE PRESENCE OF ABSENCE OF ERRORS, WHETHER OR NOT DISCOVERABLE. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OF IMPLIED WARRANTIES, SO SUCH EXCLUSION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU. EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN NO EVENT WILL LICENSOR BE LIABLE TO YOU ON ANY LEGAL THEORY FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR EXEMPLARY DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THIS LICENSE OR THE USE OF THE WORK, EVEN IF LICENSOR HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

Commit message:

Add defaults file and clean up systemd service file.

README.md, after:

# BeagleBone Blue
Howto use [BeagleBone Blue](https://github.com/jadonk/beaglebone-blue) with [ArduPilot](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot)

[![alt text](https://img.youtube.com/vi/v2xWtlyYrtE/0.jpg)](https://youtu.be/v2xWtlyYrtE)

[![alt text](https://img.youtube.com/vi/8bVc9X869pw/0.jpg)](https://youtu.be/8bVc9X869pw)

# Hardware

![alt text](https://github.com/jadonk/beaglebone-blue/blob/master/docs/BeagleBone_Blue_balloons.png "BeagleBone Blue")

## Receiver
The RC receiver signal has to be connected to connector E4 pin 4. This pin is a multi protocol pin (S.BUS, PPM-Sum, Spektrum Satellit DSM), the protocol will be automatically detected. Make sure the signal does not exceed 3.3 volts, otherwise your BeagleBone Blue can be damaged.

## GPS
I recommend to use a u-blox M8N GPS. Connect the GPS to the GPS connector. Make sure the signal does not exceed 3.3 volts, otherwise your BeagleBone Blue can be damaged.

# Software

## Prepare BeagleBone Blue
1. Update software: `sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade -y`
2. Install software: `sudo apt install -y bb-cape-overlays cpufrequtils ardupilot-copter-blue`
3. Set clock to 1GHz: `sudo sed -i 's/GOVERNOR="ondemand"/GOVERNOR="performance"/g' /etc/init.d/cpufrequtils`
4. Update scripts: `cd /opt/scripts && sudo git pull`
5. Install RT Kernel 4.4: `sudo /opt/scripts/tools/update_kernel.sh --ti-rt-channel --lts-4_4`
6. Reboot system: `sudo reboot`

## Prebuild ArduPilot 
1. Download ready compiled ArduPilot file from http://bbbmini.org/download/blue/
2. Copy file via SCP or microSD on your BeagleBone Blue

## Run ArduPilot

ArduCopter:
`sudo /home/debian/arducopter` (plus parameter) 

ArduPlane:
`sudo /home/debian/arduplane` (plus parameter) 

ArduRover:
`sudo /home/debian/ardurover` (plus parameter) 

Parameter mapping:

start parameter | ArduPilot serial port 
------------ | -------------
-A | SERIAL0
-B | SERIAL3
-C | SERIAL1
-D | SERIAL2
-E | SERIAL4
-F | SERIAL5

Check http://ardupilot.org/copter/docs/parameters.html#serial0-baud-serial0-baud-rate to set the right value for `SERIALx_BAUD` and `SERIALx_PROTOCOL`

To connect a MAVLink groundstation with IP 192.168.178.26 add `-C udp:192.168.178.26:14550`

To use MAVLink via radio connected to UART4 add `-C /dev/ttyO4`. 

If there is a GPS connected to UART5 add `-B /dev/ttyO5`. 

Example: MAVLink groundstation with IP 192.168.178.26 on port 14550 and GPS connected to `/dev/ttyO5` UART5.

`sudo /home/debian/arducopter-quad -C udp:192.168.178.26:14550 -B /dev/ttyO5`

Example: MAVLink groundstation via radio connected to UART4 and GPS connected to `/dev/ttyO5` UART5.

`sudo /home/debian/arducopter-quad -B /dev/ttyO5 -C /dev/ttyO4`

### Automatic start ArduCopter after boot

If ArduCopter should start automatically at boot time follow the instructions below:

SYS V init based startup

Edit `/etc/rc.local` with `sudo nano /etc/rc.local`
Modify file to:
```
#!/bin/sh -e
#
# rc.local
#
# This script is executed at the end of each multiuser runlevel.
# Make sure that the script will "exit 0" on success or any other
# value on error.
#
# In order to enable or disable this script just change the execution
# bits.
#
# By default this script does nothing.

/bin/sleep 10
/bin/echo uart > /sys/devices/platform/ocp/ocp\:P9_21_pinmux/state
/bin/echo uart > /sys/devices/platform/ocp/ocp\:P9_22_pinmux/state
/bin/echo pruecapin_pu > /sys/devices/platform/ocp/ocp:P8_15_pinmux/state
/home/debian/arducopter -B /dev/ttyO2 -C /dev/ttyUSB0 > /home/debian/arducopter.log &

exit 0
```

1. Save file: `Strg + o + Enter`
2. Exit nano: `Strg + x`
3. Reboot BegaleBone with `sudo reboot`

Systemd based startup, useful with arducopter packages from debian/rcnee repo.
Edit defaults file with vi command below. Use ESC, then :wq to exit.

sudo vi /etc/defaults/arducopter

TELEM1="-C /dev/ttyS1"
TELEM2="-A udp:192.168.100.22:14550"
#TELEM2="-C /dev/ttyAMA0"
GPS="-B /dev/ttyS2"

# Options to pass to ArduCopter
#ARDUCOPTER_OPTS=$TELEM1 $TELEM2

# -A is a console switch (usually this is a Wi-Fi link)
# -C is a telemetry switch
# Usually this is either /dev/ttyAMA0 - UART connector on your Navio
# or /dev/ttyUSB0 if you're using a serial to USB convertor

# -B or -E is used to specify non default GPS

Edit systemd service file with vi command below, or use sudo nano command from above

sudo vi /lib/systemd/system/arducopter.service

Replace contents of service file with below. Use ESC, then :wq to exit.

[Unit]
Description=ArduCopter Service
After=networking.service
Conflicts=arduplane.service ardupilot.service ardurover.service

[Service]
EnvironmentFile=/etc/default/arducopter
ExecStartPre=/bin/bash -c "/bin/echo uart > /sys/devices/platform/ocp/ocp:P9_21_pinmux/state"
ExecStartPre=/bin/bash -c "/bin/echo uart > /sys/devices/platform/ocp/ocp:P9_22_pinmux/state"
ExecStartPre=/bin/bash -c "/bin/echo uart > /sys/devices/platform/ocp/ocp:P9_24_pinmux/state"
ExecStartPre=/bin/bash -c "/bin/echo uart > /sys/devices/platform/ocp/ocp:P9_26_pinmux/state"
ExecStartPre=/bin/bash -c "/bin/echo pruecapin_pu > /sys/devices/platform/ocp/ocp:P8_15_pinmux/state"
ExecStart=/usr/bin/ardupilot/blue-arducopter $TELEM1 $TELEM2 $GPS

Restart=on-failure

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target

# License

<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-sa/4.0/88x31.png" /></a><br /><span xmlns:dct="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" property="dct:title">BeagleBone Blue ArduPilot</span> by <a xmlns:cc="http://creativecommons.org/ns#" href="https://github.com/mirkix" property="cc:attributionName" rel="cc:attributionURL">Mirko Denecke</a> is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License</a>.

UNLESS OTHERWISE MUTUALLY AGREED TO BY THE PARTIES IN WRITING, LICENSOR OFFERS THE WORK AS-IS AND MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND CONCERNING THE WORK, EXPRESS, IMPLIED, STATUTORY OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTIES OF TITLE, MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NONINFRINGEMENT, OR THE ABSENCE OF LATENT OR OTHER DEFECTS, ACCURACY, OR THE PRESENCE OF ABSENCE OF ERRORS, WHETHER OR NOT DISCOVERABLE. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OF IMPLIED WARRANTIES, SO SUCH EXCLUSION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU. EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN NO EVENT WILL LICENSOR BE LIABLE TO YOU ON ANY LEGAL THEORY FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR EXEMPLARY DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THIS LICENSE OR THE USE OF THE WORK, EVEN IF LICENSOR HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.
